---
title: Basicmails API Reference

language_tabs: # must be one of https://git.io/vQNgJ
  - javascript

toc_footers:
  - <a href='https://basicmails.com/' target="_blank">Sign Up for a Developer Key</a>

includes:
  - errors

search: true

code_clipboard: true

meta:
  - name: description
    content: Documentation for the Kittn API
---

# Introduction

Welcome to the [Basicmails](https://basicmails.com) API! Basicmails is a service that helps you send emails.

- Add a domain and verify it by adding TXT record in your domain DNS settings
- Create templates for your emails
- Shoot emails with an easy-to-use, simple API

# Authentication

Basicmails uses API keys to allow access to the API.

Basicmails expects the API key to be included in all API requests to the server in a header that looks like the following:

`Authorization: Bearer API_KEY`

You can find the API key in your Home → Settings page.

<aside class="notice">
You must replace <code>API_KEY</code> with your personal API key.
</aside>

<aside class="warning">Do not expose your API key to public in browser. It's for server-side use only.</aside>


# API Endpoint

> `api.basicmails.com/v1`

The API is served from `https://api.basicmails.com`. Currently is serves `v1` from `https://api.basicmails.com/v1`.


# Messages

The emails that you send are named as messages. You can send an email by a  `POST` request to `/v1/messages`.

## Create a message

You can send an email using this endpoint.

The server responds with an 202 Accepted HTTP code after which your email is queued for delivery.

> `POST /v1/<DOMAIN>/messages`

```js
const data = {
  "template": "user_welcome",
  "to": "newuser@awesomeapp.com",
  "from": "team@awesomeapp.com",
  "subject": "Hi, welcome to awesomeapp!",
  "variables": {
    "name": "Adam"
  }
}

fetch("//api.basicmails.com/v1/awesomeapp.com/messages", {
  method: 'POST',
  body: JSON.stringify(data),
  headers: {
    'Content-Type' : 'application/json',
    'Authorization' : `Bearer ${API_KEY}`
  }
})
```

Parameter | required?   | Description
--------- | ----------- | --------------
to `string` | `required` | Recipient address
from `string` | `required` | Sender address
subject `string` | `required` | Email subject
template `string` | `optional` | Template name
variables `json` | `optional` | Variables used in your template
html `string` | `optional` | You can use it to send an email content generated by yourself (overrides `template` use)
text `string` | `optional` | A text version of your email

<aside class="warning">
A 400 BAD REQUEST error is thrown if both `template` and `html` are missing or blank
</aside>

# Sandbox

> sandbox.basicmails.com/v1

Sandbox is an API environment created for the development purpose. How to use:

1. Go to Home → Settings
2. Pick the test API key for development use
3. Add that to your local env variable. Nothing else changes.

<aside class="info">The emails you send from sandbox environment are not recorded in database.</aside>

